Hey there and welcome to Soul Church.
Our prayer is that this message encourages you wherever you may be in life.
We've been hearing so many stories about what God is doing in people's lives and we'd love to hear yours.
So take a second and send your story to stories at soulchurch.com.
Thanks again for joining us today and we hope that you enjoy the message.
God bless.
Father, we thank you for your word.
We thank you that your word brings strength, it brings change, it brings challenge, and it brings peace into our lives.
So Lord, I pray, Father, that you would speak to every single person in this room.
Even if people in this room do not believe in God, you would speak to them.
Even those watching online, Father, who's just stumbled across this YouTube channel, they would have an encounter with the living God in their living room, in the carload.
Those listening on podcast, Father, would be changed, Father, through your word today.
Amen.
All right.
You can take your seats.
Say hi to someone on the way down.
Good to see some of you out in church today.
James Zori said, but really want to welcome our online community as well.
Yeah, let's give them a hand as they watch church.
Wherever you are from your workplace, your home, it's great to have you with us.
Chapel is back on Tuesday.
Okay.
Chapel is our midweek service.
It's 10 30 a.m. every Tuesday.
For our term time and you're welcome.
Maybe you work shifts maybe a student Maybe you're going through transition at work and you want to come out on a Tuesday 10 30 a.m. We have a chapel service These are great times to get we always get well over a hundred people come on a Tuesday morning come for coffee have some lunch afterwards in the cafe But it's a great great place to connect midweek also an extended special warm welcome to Tom and Becky Waltz who have moved here from Texas would you just stand guys and
We just want to say how much we love you both.
Becky grew up in Norwich and then married a Texan, Texas Tom.
He normally has a cowboy hat on, but he's left that in Texas.
But we love this couple and they really felt about a year ago a stirring to come and be part of what God's doing here in Norwich.
And I think that's a pretty bold move in the days we live.
Most people are leaving the UK.
These guys are moving into the UK.
We honor your courage and thank you for your faithfulness.
And I know God's going to use you mightily as you serve here in Norfolk.
The fast, we are one week in.
Don't all cheer at once.
We're one week in to the fast.
And Chantal and I already feel like God's been really speaking to us.
It's amazing how you hear God's voice clearer when you fast and pray.
And I want to encourage you, it's not too late to jump on board.
Okay, to take some time out from some of those things, maybe it's social media, electronics, maybe it's, you know, the Daniel fast, intermittent, well, however you feel comfortable, but I think it's important that we all do something in this season of prayer and fasting.
And I'll also next week be announcing a date for prayer gathering within the church as well in this time.
I feel really strongly we need to come out and gather and pray and worship and see God's faith.
So I'll let you know that day other in the week on socials or next Sunday.
This is a word.
that has been brewing for a while.
I want to be very honest today, transparent and vulnerable with you, and it will help you, I hope, it did in the first service.
And there's a passage of Scripture in Hebrews chapter 12, verse one and two that we're just going to look at today.
And I pray it speaks to you like it's spoken to me at the start of this year.
It says, therefore, since we are surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses, let us throw off every weight
that hinders and the sin that so easily entangles.
And let us run with perseverance, the race marked out for us, fixing our eyes on Jesus, the pioneer, the perfect of our faith, the joy set before him.
He endured the cross, scorning its shame and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.
The writer of Hebrews describes life as a race.
And it describes the fact that there are heroes of faith
Our family members, people of faith who have gone on before who are in the stands of heaven cheering us on.
My first marathon was in 2008, the London Marathon.
Just gives away if you ever run a marathon.
Now what got me through the marathon was not my six weeks of training.
It should have been six months.
My wife did six months, I did six weeks.
Guess who won?
She did.
She beat me by 30 minutes.
But the last 30 minutes of the London Marathon were excruciating, but there was one thing that got me through the last 30 minutes of the London Marathon.
It was the tens of thousands of people who'd line the streets of central London, and they were shouting things like, because you have your name on it.
Come on, John.
You can make it.
You've got this.
Don't quit.
Don't give up.
And every time you felt like quitting or just stopping the stands of people cheered you on.
Do you know there are people in heaven right now?
People have gone way before you, your parents, grandparents, for some of you, family members, pastors that have gone before.
You know what they're doing right now?
They say, go on, you can make it.
Don't quit.
Don't quit now.
You're too close.
Keep going.
The stands of heaven.
And then the writer says, now let's throw off everything.
Every weight hinders us.
The sin that's so easy entangles us.
The writer is saying you've got get rid of weight.
This time of year, we set goals, don't we?
Spiritual goals, financial goals, racial goals.
But a lot of people set physical goals.
And one of the top goals is to lose weight.
People talk about losing weight at the start of the year.
They talk about no drinking and no eating certain foods and they want to lose weight.
They want to feel younger and fitter again.
Why?
Because weight slows us down.
Weight slows us down.
And we can't run tomorrow's race.
carrying yesterday's weight.
And God wants you and I, I'm not talking about physical weight today, I'm talking about the weight of life.
Because sometimes things attach themselves to us and we go through life and what started out was, you know, when you see kids and young people who are just messing around, they're laughing and they're full of joy and they've got no cares in the world, do you know why?
Because they're not carrying any weight, not the necessary weight of responsibility, weight of the past,
way of the challenges of life, and so they could just run around.
Why?
Because they're simply weightless.
That's why Jesus has come to me like little children, because they're not carrying the weights of this life.
God wants us to run through this, through this year, not stumble through it, but run the race, he said, and experience freedom.
Last year, I bought myself a weight jacket.
Thank you, Dissy.
I've got a couple of running partners, Steve and Rusty, going to a couple of people, and I decided I'd buy myself a running jacket.
Now this is 10 kilograms, which is actually quite heavy, okay?
And the idea is that if you put some weight on, the weight will come off.
It does work if you use it, I promise you.
So I put this on, put this on, think I'm going to be the next Bear Grylls.
Did it up and
You know, for the first 10 minutes, I hardly felt it.
But as the year went on, every kilometer, it got heavier and heavier.
And I went from a 10-minute mile to an 11-minute mile to a 12-minute mile to a 12-and-a-half, and this is the slowest I've ever run.
It was in that moment when I was running with this weight jacket on, the Holy Spirit spoke to me.
And he said, you know what, John, so many Christians starting with you, you carry and wait.
You carry and wait.
God wants us to run the race.
He wants us to enjoy life.
He wants us to walk in freedom in 2026, yet it's really difficult when we're holding on to extra weight.
The writer says this, he says, throw it off.
Throw off, literally throw off the weights that are holding you back.
Identify them.
Identify the things that are slowing us down.
You know, there is a price to freedom in 2026.
It will not come easy.
The way God sets us free isn't by Wang Bang.
Thank you, ma'am.
Prayer.
This is how he sets us free.
He says, I want to take that off you.
And I want to take that off you.
I don't want to remove this from you.
And he takes off things as we go through the race in life.
And often what God removes from our lives is just as important as what he allows into our lives.
Often we think, God, I need this, I need that, and I need this, and I need more of that.
And God says, yeah, I get that.
But first thing I want to do is I want to remove some of the baggage, some of the weight that's attached itself to you so you can walk and run and not be weary.
And here's the challenge for all of us is what we don't work out will eventually act out in our lives.
So if we don't walk this stuff, work this stuff out, it will act itself out in our lives.
It will come out in various forms, shapes and sizes.
So many times we can become obsessed with physical weight and getting fit, what we eat, how we look, the numbers on the scales, weight completely ignoring the other weights in life that can crush us.
But letting go is the key to freedom.
I want to talk, the message is titled today, drop the weight, run your race.
drop the weight, run your race.
And I want to be totally honest, as I've said, and vulnerable.
I want to share five things, five specific things that the Holy Spirit is dealing with me on, and I know you'll be able to relate to them.
These are five weights that I desire to drop in 2026.
Okay, these are the five weights.
Now, you might be able to relate to one of them, two of them, or five of them, or maybe the Holy Spirit is going to talk to you about your own weight and the area that you need to drop.
This is the first wait and they all come from this passage.
Number one is the fear of the future.
Verse one says, let us run with perseverance.
The race marked out for us.
The rider is describing these short few years we have as a race marked out for us.
It's a long race, but it's a race.
And there are different markers in a race.
If you run a marathon, there's a marker on every mile.
We're going from a marker as we've just crossed into this new year.
But we can live with fear between these two markers or we can live with freedom.
Fear is the enemy's number one tool to weaken our confidence in Christ.
He wants us to live with fear.
That's why I love being around kids because they're fearless.
My son will just jump on everything, climb up, he's just got no fear.
We were watching Bear Grylls on Friday night as he was introed, but as he's jumping out of aeroplanes and jumping off the side of ravines, the man is fearless.
Yet he comes up on stage and he admits so honestly and openly that he was shaking on the side of stage the thought of standing in front of the public.
You see, we all have fear.
Sometimes it looks different for you and it looks different for me.
You wouldn't get me in an aeroplane jumping out.
Who's with me?
I'm not doing that.
I'm not doing it.
I think I'd forget to pull the cord or something.
That's not for me.
But the challenges and the enemy knows this is that the more fear we allow into our lives, the harder it is for us to grow spiritually.
I want to grow this year.
Who wants to grow in the image of Christ?
Do you know fear will stop us growing in Christ?
And everyone's fears are different.
My fears are the fear of the future.
Do you ever watch the news and think, what does this look like for my kids?
I can sort of handle the news when I look at it from my own perspective.
When I start thinking of my children, maybe my grandchildren one day, and I start thinking, what is our world gonna look like in 20 years?
We can fear of fears of the future, fears of failure, fear of do we have what it takes to keep leading and building a church for another 12 months.
The fear of could chantel and I personally fail you.
The fear of people attacking us.
The fear is that the enemy sends our minds are real.
And I want to be honest here is fear is alive but fear is also real.
So something can be alive but yet still real for us because we feel it, we sense it.
Yet God showed me something as I was studying on the plane.
I went paintballing a while back and
Before we went on to the game, I got offered to buy some smoke bombs.
I think they were like 10 pounds.
I was like, I'm not gonna, some of the lads bought some smoke bombs.
And what a smoke bomb is, is it's, in war there's a difference.
Who knows there's a difference between a smoke bomb and a grenade?
A smoke bomb is made to look and to feel and to intimidate and act
like a grenade but who knows that a smoke bomb in this circumstance is absolutely harmless.
It's just there to instill fear in us and the enemy is constantly lobbing smoke bombs at us and we get caught up in the fog of life and we can't see through it yet really there's nothing there because it's harmless.
And I felt today to say
For me and for many of you that you've got to drop the weight of fear in your life because fear is a lie.
We've got to recognize many of you are living in the smoke bomb, a fear.
You're living in the fear of the past, the fear of the present, the fear of the future.
And God is saying, would you step out of the smoke today?
And I want you to know that I am your protector.
I am your provider.
And every time fear attacks my mind,
And he's what I've realized.
I know how to direct my prayers and I know where to read my Bible.
Gives us direction when fear attacks, because for God has not given us a spirit of fear, power and of love and of a sound mind.
And so when fear attacks you this year, because it will, because it's real, even though it's a lie, it's real.
If it feels real, you've got to be equipped for it.
You've got to know how to pray.
And you've got to know what to read.
And you've got to speak the word of God.
You've got to have the courage to speak to your fear.
And one of the greatest verses for fear comes from one John 4 18.
It says, God's perfect love casts out, removes all fear.
All fear.
The way to fear is removed when you surrender yourself to God and literally wrap your arms around.
Remember that he loves you.
His plan is to
strengthen and help you.
Christ's complete and divine love removes the fear of punishment and judgment.
You know fear and perfect love are incompatible.
You have to choose what you walk in this year.
You know when my kids are scared or fearful, what do we do as parents?
What do we do?
Why?
Because perfect love.
If your child was standing there scared,
What father would watch them and enjoy it or watch them and ignore it?
No, no father would do it.
What does a father do?
He takes up his child and he wraps his love because perfect love casts out awe fear.
And maybe you're sitting in fear today.
Maybe you've got a smoke bomber fear in your life on which you know that your heavenly father is close and he wants to wrap his loving arms around you and remove that fear because his perfect love removes fear.
The second way I choose to remove is this, and this is coming from an honest heart today, it's my desire to control.
Number one is the fear of the future.
Number two is my desire to control.
I say I was gonna be honest, this is probably the biggest one.
I like to control things.
No surprise there.
Who else likes to control things?
Four of us, oh dear.
Come on, where's all the control people?
Control's not always bad.
I was on an airplane this week and I was very glad there was a pilot in control.
Who's glad when you've got an airplane and you've got a control freak of a pilot, okay?
It's good, okay?
It's good.
I walk in a room, I like to control the temperature, the sound, the temptation, the food without even trying.
I'd even control the weather if I could, especially this week.
Now, where control becomes dangerous is where it creates division.
This is some of the things the Holy Spirit's been showing me.
Power creates control and control in the wrong hands can create division.
And this is where, for some of you, this is like, this isn't for you, I get that.
For for some of you, you know what I'm talking about.
And God's been challenging me on this, let us throw off every weight, everything that hinders.
The order I get, I realize that uncontrolled control holds me back.
Write that down, uncontrolled control.
When you can't, when you're trying to control everything.
Now I don't have the power to control everything, but I have the power to surrender everything.
You're gonna clap.
I do not have the power.
I wish I could control, who wishes they could control everything?
Whitehall, everything.
I wish we could control, but we can't.
And we can try and as we do that, we'll get hurt and we divide.
God said to me on the places, I can do far more with your surrender than your control.
So what do we do?
We've got to focus, focus on what we can control and surrender what we can't control.
So let's think about the things that we should control in our lives.
We should control
our choices, our values, our self-discipline, our reactions, our emotions.
We can control those things and God wants us to, but the things that we can't control, the things that are happening around the world and governments and the wars and the things that get us angry and frustrated and the injustices and all the things that happen.
And yes, we should use our voice, but we also, we need to surrender.
because some of the things that we're trying to control weren't meant for us to control, they were meant for us to surrender.
And dropping the weight of trying to control someone in the natural actually gives room for God to move in the spiritual.
And for some of those times we mean this is really difficult.
Because if you were kind of born as a command and control, you like to control things.
God says, I made you that way and there's certain things I want you to do, but on the things that you can't, I want you to surrender them.
And some of us are trying to control our parents, our kids, our bosses, trying to control everything God sent today, I just simply want you to surrender them.
Control what I've given you power to control and surrender what you can.
The third way that I choose to let go of is
my temptation to settle.
Fear of the future, control and temptation to settle.
I turned 47 last month and these temptations can slowly start creeping in.
You can start inviting little thoughts to start growing in your mind.
So often when we're confronted with setbacks or difficult situations or bad reports,
We don't see the thing that we've been praying for, the miracle.
We can buckle over and start settling.
So, well, it didn't happen last year.
It didn't happen the five years before.
Maybe it's just not going to happen.
And settling, if you want to write this down, settling is simply compromise mingled with disappointment.
So we get disappointed and we just think, you know what, I'll just settle.
I spoke to a gentleman in the last service, he said that his son, his son had gone for 500 jobs, but 500 job applications in.
And he called him, he said that, I just can't do it.
I'm just not cut out for work.
His dad said, don't give up.
Don't give up, try again.
Two or three applications later, he got a job.
Two or three applications later.
Why?
Because you can quit just before your breakthrough.
You can quit just before your miracle.
You know, five years now, we're believing for a Christian school.
No real breakthroughs.
And the enemy over the Christmas period, he said, John, just lay it down.
Just give up.
It's easy to say no, but when you ain't sin, and I don't know your situation, but you do know my, it's easy just to go, you know, I'll just settle.
Look, we've built this.
We'll just keep going.
But something in me was rising up.
This week, something in me was saying, hey, come on.
Don't compromise what God's giving you.
Don't compromise the dream in your heart.
Don't settle for disappointment.
Don't settle for second best.
For some of you, do not settle for what God has spoken to you about.
If God said he's going to do it, he's going to do it.
It might take time.
It might take months.
It might even take years.
But I refuse to settle.
I refuse to.
Now, here's the thing about selling, and I need everybody to write this down.
I'll take a note on it.
It's one of the most important things I'm going to say today.
Settle once and you'll find it very easy to settle again.
The moment you start settling once, you'll settle again.
I felt the Holy Spirit give me a little bit of a kick.
He said, John, don't settle.
We're not going to settle.
Don't resign yourself to the job that you don't really like.
I believe that God has got a better job out there for you.
We've got to keep hoping and believing.
Now, in this passage in verse two, it says, fixing our eyes on Jesus.
I've never, I've read this a hundred times, but I've never, this never jumped at me.
The pioneer.
Jesus was a pioneer.
And I said to God, God, I want to catch the pioneer spirit.
I want to pioneer spirit again.
What do pioneers do?
They keep moving forward.
They don't settle.
They say, give me another mountain.
Do not quit.
Someone needs to hear those words today.
Do not quit that marriage.
Do not quit that job opportunity.
Do not quit that dream.
Keep going.
God's going to give you a fresh pioneer spirit to keep believing and going again.
Pioneers, they take ground.
They refuse to give up.
And I've seen this so many times that every time I settle, I end up with less.
Every time.
In 2026, God has called us to take ground and advance, not retreat.
We've got a city that needs Jesus.
We left on Friday night and we drove home so slowly because we were just overwhelmed with God's goodness.
And I said to Chantel, I said, I am so convinced that there has never been a season in our city where people are ready and ripe to hear the good news of Jesus.
And on Vision Sunday, we're gonna be announcing something that's gonna really spearhead our church in the future, but we are not settling as a church.
We are not settling.
Do not settle.
Do not settle where you are in your marriage.
Do not settle where you are in your business.
Keep moving forward.
God wants to do greater things.
There are greater things ahead for you.
God, give me, come on, let's just say this today.
God, give me a fresh, pioneer spirit.
For some of you, that was difficult.
Because you feel like your age is stopping you.
Maybe there's a book in you.
Maybe you're 18 years young and there's a book in you.
Maybe there's still a discipleship in you.
There's still someone you can mentor.
There's still someone you can help.
There's still someone you can love.
But I want to encourage you do not settle this year in 2026.
Here's the pioneer of our faith.
I'm going to give you some verses for when I feel like settling in 2026.
Luke 11, 9, it says, Jesus speaking.
So I tell you,
Keep on asking and you will receive what you ask.
Keep on seeking and you will find.
Keep on knocking and the door will be opened unto you.
Not settling, asking, not settling, seeking, not settling, knocking.
Jesus said, you've got to keep asking and seeking and knocking in 2026.
Okay, my fourth way I choose to let go of is the pain of rejection.
throw off every weight.
You know, as I'm speaking, I've been speaking about 28 minutes now.
This is getting heavier.
Just breathing a little bit heavier.
I did it the first service as well.
So just bear with me.
But this is getting heavier.
If we don't deal with some of this weight, it sticks.
It's getting harder.
Your rejection is one of the heaviest weights and it's more destructive.
than anything I know.
A hundred positive comments in life can be wiped out with one negative.
We had thousands of people commenting and sending us beautiful emails and letters during the wonder.
It was so encouraging.
In one person, they were walking past me at the wonder at the door.
They said, can you pass it on?
It wasn't as good as last year.
Now, I can be a little bit cheeky,
So I just said, can we give you your money back?
Anyway.
But isn't it amazing how thousands of people, what was the one thing I couldn't get out of my mind over Christmas?
Maybe it wasn't as good, maybe.
And you feel that sense because rejection attaches itself to you.
And when we hear that word, automatically our minds go back to a time, a place, a person where we felt rejected.
Maybe you're rejected in a workplace, maybe you're rejected in a relationship.
Three times my wife, Chantelle, rejected me at Bible school.
She dated her guitar teacher instead.
She said she didn't date him.
She's just a special relationship, just especially.
You know, rejection has a way of destroying a person's life more than anything else.
It can crush us.
The sad fact is that most people watching in the room and online, you've experienced it.
You know what I'm talking about.
And the writer here is challenges.
We've got to drop the weight and walk in freedom.
But as long as you're alive, which pretty much all of you are, as long as you're alive, we're all prone to rejection.
Why does rejection wound us so deeply?
Why does it hurt so much?
Let me explain John 10-10, since the thief comes to rob, to steal, and to destroy.
I have come to give life and life to the full.
Rejection is an anti-Christ spirit, because it's anti the very nature of Christ.
Christ came to bring life and hope and peace into people's life.
The enemy wants to stick shame and rejection on us.
The root of rejection is simply misplaced identity.
If you're constantly feeling rejected, it's because of misplaced identity.
Whenever we base our identity on somebody or something outside of what the word of God says about us, we are prone to rejection.
So when our identity is in what people's comments or people saying how good we are or not, that's where we find our identity, we're prone to rejection.
And it's not rejection that actually shapes our lives.
It's our response.
And the answer to rejection can only be found in Christ.
An ultimate comes down to this.
It's this question.
When I feel rejected, I have to ask myself this one question.
Who do I live my life to please?
Am I trying to please everyone with a wonder?
Am I trying to keep everyone happy?
Or ultimately am I trying to
honor and please God.
Once I get that question, I can actually discover my true identity.
Ephesians one versus forces long ago, even before he made the world, God loved us and he chose us in Christ to be holy without fault in his eyes.
If you struggle with rejection, I want you to look at these four truths in this scripture.
Number one is this, God created you.
God created you.
You didn't come from a monkey.
You were made in the image of God.
I need to say that again.
You did not come from a chimpanzee.
I'm not an accident.
I'm not a mistake.
I was created in the image of a mighty God and I was fearfully and wonderfully made.
That's my identity.
Number two, number one, he created me.
Number two, he loves me.
Before he made the world, God loves us.
Everyone else might struggle to love me, but he loves me.
Sometimes we're all hard to love at times, but he loves me.
No matter how many mistakes I've made, no matter what I've done, where I've been, I'm here to tell you without a shadow of a doubt, he loves you.
Number three, he chose me.
He chose me.
God loved us.
And chose us.
You might not feel adequate, but God chose you.
Sometimes I don't feel adequate to do what I do.
And I know you don't feel adequate to do what you do, but you know what?
God chose you.
You say, well, I'm not qualified.
It's okay.
God chose you.
He qualifies the unqualified.
Number four, he sees you without fault in his eyes.
That's how God sees you.
You know, this is so relaxing.
This is how God sees me.
He created me, he loves me, and he chose me.
No one else sees me that way on planet Earth, but God does.
So my identity is in Christ.
Young people, you don't have to win the approval of this crazy jack-taught world.
You're already approved by Christ.
No amount of followers, no amount of likes, no amount of people saying this has anything that can change how much God created you, chose you, loved you and sees you.
My identity is in him.
Can we finish off real quickly?
Wait, number five.
The fifth way I choose to let go of is the shame of the past.
Preach it, brother.
He endured the cross.
Scorning.
Scorning, it's shame.
The worst thing in the world is not knowing Jesus.
I'm telling you that now.
If you don't know Jesus, your personal savior, in a few moments, I'm gonna give you an opportunity, because the worst thing in the world is to go through this life without knowing Jesus.
But the second worst thing in the world, hang on, the second thing worst thing in the world is to go through life knowing Jesus, but not enjoying Jesus.
Being a miserable Christian.
You're not, I'll keep you miserable, shame.
It's not that you know that God doesn't love you and you can hear what I have and that's dealt with.
It's simply that you've never dealt with your shame because you're carrying the weight of your past.
How can we enjoy life if we don't like ourselves?
Jesus himself understood shame.
His crucifixion was more than just death.
Romans would crucify Jews naked
There's ultimate humiliation and shame.
And then they placed a sign on top of the cross and said, Jesus, King of the Jews.
What kind of king would be lying naked in front of his own people, dying on a cross?
Shame.
Shame breeds three things in our lives.
Number one, shame breeds fear.
Whenever you feel in shame, you feel fear.
You feel like you'll be exposed or someone will find out.
So you live in fear.
Shame breeds blame.
Whenever we're feeling shame, we want to blame someone else, put it on them for our mistakes.
It was his fault, it was her fault.
So shame breeds blame.
And the third thing that shame does is shame breeds disconnection.
When we feel shame, we want to be disconnected.
The amount of people I know that they leave church because they've made some mistakes and they don't feel like they're good enough to come through the doors.
And we tell you, none of us are good enough to step through those doors.
None of us are good enough.
We all had a bad thought this week.
We've all messed up.
We've all made mistakes.
And Revelation 12, 10 talks about the enemy.
One of Satan's names is accuser.
He says, the accuser of the church and the enemy is constantly trying to accuse us.
You didn't read your Bible this week.
You didn't pray.
You weren't nice to your wife.
You're not really a good Christian.
You could have done better at work.
Are you trying to give up that addiction last year and you failed and the enemy is constantly trying to accuse you?
Constantly.
Isaiah said, do not fear.
If you will not be ashamed, neither be disgraced.
If you will not be put to shame, for you will forget the shame of your youth.
We've got to start forgetting what God's already forgotten.
He endured the cross.
Scorning is shame.
God wants us to drop the weights.
Because we might start off this year strong and think we can do it.
We had a good recharge over Christmas New Year, but the reality is we never dealt with the stuff, the rejection, the control, the fear.
We never actually dealt with it.
We just ate and feel good and now we think we can keep going, but God's saying no.
You know, vulnerability breaks the weight.
We got, wow.
Do you know how free in this feels?
And I'm not just saying that it really does.
Lay aside every weight.
They're so easily entangles us and let us run.
Come on, we're going to run through this year.
Let us run the race that has been marked out for us.
You know, the devil hates this stuff.
When we expose this, we expose him because he's the father of lies.
And you've ever heard it's dead weight.
That term, it can be dead weight today.
You can leave it at the foot of the cross.
I'm gonna finish with this, but God wants to remind you again today that you're forgiven.
Forgiven of the challenges, the fears, the rejection, forgiven free.
My favorite scripture in the whole Bible is Lamentations 3.22.
It's probably not a day that I don't say it at some point.
The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases.
His mercy,
never comes to an end.
It is new every morning.
Great is your faithfulness.
God's love and forgiveness towards us, it never ends.
Do you know what, for many years I actually struggled with why would God keep wanting to forgive me when I keep messing up?
Because you might mess up in marriage once or twice and then it's over.
You might mess up at work and you might get a warning and then it's over.
You might mess up with a friend, you might let them down and they get rid of you.
So why does God keep forgiving me even when I keep failing him, even when I keep messing up?
And this is what he showed me because he wants relationship with me.
Why does Chantal keep forgiving me?
Because her desire for relationships
is stronger than my mistakes.
Whenever your desire for relationship is stronger than a person's mistakes, a relationship can be restored.
And do you know what God's desire for relationship with you and me is stronger and greater than every single one of our mistakes?
That's why His mercy is new every morning, because He desires relationship with us.
So I'm not defined by the weight.
I'm defined by his love.
I'm a new creation today.
This year, I'm completing him.
I'm a child of God.
I'm alive in Christ.
I am free from the law of sin and death.
I'm the righteousness of God in Christ Jesus.
Does it mean I've not got a past?
No.
Does it mean I've not got mistakes?
Does it mean I don't feel rejection or fear?
None of those things is just that I know who I am in Christ.
Amen.
I want everyone just to close their eyes.
No one moving around.
Because I want to talk about the greatest weight of all.
It's the weight of sin.
Sin is the only thing that can separate us from God.
Today the Bible says we've all sinned, we've all fallen short of the glory of God.
We've all got this wrong.
We've all tried to walk, do life our own way in our own time.
God is saying today, friend, I love you.
Maybe you came to the wonder or you came to bed grills.
You came back today because you're searching for meaning, you're searching for direction and purpose for your life because this world is offering you very little.
Today you can find that his name is Jesus.
You say, well, I don't understand it or nor do I really, but I do know that he loves me.
He's got a plan for me.
He's got a future for me.
And today the Father wants to wrap his loving arms around you.
Say to you, you could make it, but it begins with a decision to say, Jesus, I want to follow you.
Maybe you once walked with God, but you've drifted away.
Maybe once had a relationship, but life's taken you down a different path.
You've been through some challenging times.
God says, I still love you.
My desire for you is greater than your mistakes.
That's why my love is here today.
Right now, if you say, John, I want to become a Christian or I want to come back to God.
All I want you to do right now, all over this room is say, John, I need Jesus.
Just slip up your hand right now and say, John, pray for me.
Lift it up nice and high.
John, pray for me.
All over this room, lift it up.
God bless you.
Lift it up nice and high.
I need Jesus today.
I need Jesus.
God bless you.
All right, here's what I want us to do.
I want us all to stand, but before we do,
When we stand, if you lifted up your hand, I would love you just to come out the front.
I wanna pray for you.
I'm gonna shake your hand.
And we're gonna pray that God's love will come and fall on you in this moment.
So let's all stand to our feet.
If you lifted up your hand, even if you didn't, you say, I wanna become a Christian right now.
Come on, you come.
You come right now.
We'll wait for you.
You come.
Come to Jesus today.
He's waiting for you.
You come.
You come to Jesus.
We're gonna say a prayer right now and I wanna congratulate you for this courage that you've shown to step out of your seat and follow Jesus.
He loves you so much.
I don't know your story, but he does.
He says, I forgive you today.
So let's say this prayer out loud.
Father God, thank you for dying for me.
To forgive all my sins and failures.
I believe that you rose from the dead.
so that I can have a brand new life.
Please come into my heart and help me by the power of the Holy Spirit to trust and to live for you.
Amen.
Can we congratulate everyone?
Now we've got a little gift for you.
It's Mark's gospel.
This is Ian and Gemma over here.
We're just going to get this a little chap or it's a little bit quiet.
We're going to give you that, give you some information about your next steps.
And this isn't the end, it's the beginning.
I'm going to come down and shake your hand as well.
And we're going to celebrate this new chapter as you drop the greatest weight of all and leave it here today.
Amen.
Come on, let's congratulate and sing along.
Thanks again for tuning in.
If you said yes to Jesus today by saying the Salvation Prayer, we'd love for you to email connections at soulchurch.com.
So we can talk to you a little bit more about this incredible decision you've just made.
And if at any point in the service, you felt moved to give towards any of our local or global initiatives, head to soulchurch.com.
And don't forget to stay connected with us on Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube by searching at soulchurch.uk.
Take care and God bless.